docs/_static/commands/apps.rst, before:

+-------------------+--------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Option            | Type   | Help                                                                                                                |
+===================+========+=====================================================================================================================+
| ``--destination`` | Path   | File path where to write built definitions. If not given the definition list is printed to the standard output.     |
+-------------------+--------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``--format``      | str    | Specifies the output serialization format for definition list. It is either 'json' or 'python'. Default is 'python' |
+-------------------+--------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Commit message:

[NEW] Added options '--app' and  '--exclude' to  'diskette_apps'

docs/_static/commands/apps.rst, after:

+-------------------+--------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Option            | Type   | Help                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
+===================+========+================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================+
| ``--destination`` | Path   | File path where to write built definitions. If not given the definition list is printed to the standard output.                                                                                                                                |
+-------------------+--------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``--app``         | str    | This is a cumulative argument. If not empty, the definition list will be filtered with the given app lists. All other apps from 'settings.INSTALLED_APPS' will be ignored. Given app names are not validated, if invalid will just be ignored. |
+-------------------+--------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``--exclude``     | str    | This is a cumulative argument. Given app names will be ignored from list definition. This have priority over app name inclusions from the '--app' option.                                                                                      |
+-------------------+--------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``--format``      | str    | Specifies the output serialization format for definition list. It is either 'json' or 'python'. Default is 'python'                                                                                                                            |
+-------------------+--------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
