docs/_static/commands/load.rst, before:

+----------------------------+--------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Option                     | Type   | Help                                                                                                                                                              |
+============================+========+===================================================================================================================================================================+
| ``archive``                | str    | Archive file path to restore its content.                                                                                                                         |
+----------------------------+--------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``--storages-basepath``    | Path   | Directory path where to restore storage contents.                                                                                                                 |
+----------------------------+--------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``--no-data``              | bool   | Disable application data restoration.                                                                                                                             |
+----------------------------+--------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``--no-storages``          | bool   | Disable storages restoration.                                                                                                                                     |
+----------------------------+--------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``--download-destination`` | Path   | Directory path where to write download archive. This option is ignored for local archive file.                                                                    |
+----------------------------+--------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``--keep``                 | bool   | Don't automatically remove archive when finished.                                                                                                                 |
+----------------------------+--------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``--checksum``             | str    | Checksum string to compare to the archive checksum, if checksum comparison fails operation is aborted. Give value 'no' to disable checksum creation from archive. |
+----------------------------+--------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Commit message:

[NEW] Added option '--exclude-data' to 'diskette_load' to exclude some dump filenames from loading

docs/_static/commands/load.rst, after:

+----------------------------+--------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Option                     | Type   | Help                                                                                                                                                              |
+============================+========+===================================================================================================================================================================+
| ``archive``                | str    | Archive file path to restore its content.                                                                                                                         |
+----------------------------+--------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``--storages-basepath``    | Path   | Directory path where to restore storage contents.                                                                                                                 |
+----------------------------+--------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``--exclude-data``         | str    | This is a cumulative argument. Given dump filenames will be ignored from loading.                                                                                 |
+----------------------------+--------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``--no-data``              | bool   | Disable application data restoration.                                                                                                                             |
+----------------------------+--------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``--no-storages``          | bool   | Disable storages restoration.                                                                                                                                     |
+----------------------------+--------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``--download-destination`` | Path   | Directory path where to write download archive. This option is ignored for local archive file.                                                                    |
+----------------------------+--------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``--keep``                 | bool   | Don't automatically remove archive when finished.                                                                                                                 |
+----------------------------+--------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``--checksum``             | str    | Checksum string to compare to the archive checksum, if checksum comparison fails operation is aborted. Give value 'no' to disable checksum creation from archive. |
+----------------------------+--------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
